# #1. Documentation Begins...

**1^st^ January, 2019**

------



It has been a lovely day, sleeping with a sense of satisfaction of having reached somewhere, on my journey with ESP32. Today I have been able to successfully compile C++ program for ESP32 on top of a C-based ESP-IDF template. Things haven't been any easier, ever. Today is also when my knowledge of C++ matured drastically and I'm in for the benefits it brings, in terms of ease of programming. 

Also, today is the day when I have decided to document my journey with ESP32, possibly helping others use this knowledge to do some amazing stuff without getting caught up in the process of getting it to work.

## From *Programming* to *Flashing*

Having a knowledge of C++ systems, especially the background process of compilation and linking is very essential in being able to understand the quirks of programming ESP32. When you do flash a program, it is essentially a pre-compiled binary of the C/C++ app we've written.

// Flow Chart //

#### Compiler

The compiler is provided by the `xtensa-esp-elf` toolchain we have downloaded previously and have added to our path. This is the compiler called when we run the build commands. The compiler used here is a *Cross-GCC* compiler which is essentially a modified C/C++ compiler for optimized memory utilization or other such micro-controller specific features. 

#### ESP-IDF

The *ESP-IDF* essentially gives us the operating system files that need to be flashed on the ESP32. The chip comes with a proprietary bootloader[?] and whatever we program essentially gets compiled and built in bundle with the rest of the operating system, generating binaries ready to be uploaded on to the hardware. The *ESP-IDF* also comes with hardware libraries and well-documented examples of hardware features that come with it. Although you can use [Arduino ESP32 core](https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32), this way you can gain more control of the hardware and use some of the features which haven't yet been ported to Arduino core.

#### Flashing

Flashing is done via serial communication to the chip where you write the binaries on to the chip memory for execution. Doesn't matter how your binaries were generated.

## Reworking on our project for C++

Let's begin from your project directory, the directory where you'd store all your ESP32 projects.

```shell
mkdir myapp_cpp
git clone https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf-template.git myapp_cpp
```

This is an app template that's offered by Espressif for working with ESP32. Just `build` it to verify that the build system is in place.

Now, you can find the `main.c` file in the `main` folder, which happens to be a C program.

Here are the changes that need to be made in order to be able to compile your app using C++:

* First, change the file extension to C++ `.cpp`

* Appending the following after includes  essentially makes the function `app_main`, which is a C function compatible with C++. More of it [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1041866/what-is-the-effect-of-extern-c-in-c).

  ```c++
  extern "C" {
     void app_main(void);
  }
  ```

* Replace C standard libraries with the ones of C++

  ```c++
  #include <iostream>
  
  // Other Stuff
  
  std::cout << "Hello!" << '\n';
  ```

  instead of

  ```c
  #include <stdio.h>
  
  // Other Stuff
  
  printf("Hello!");
  ```

That's pretty much it! Given the file extension of `.cpp`, this app uses the toolchain C++ compiler to compile the program. You can use whatever libraries have been present otherwise, along with this method. 

This will be tested in the next post

