# #2. Frustrating Hardware

**2^nd^ January, 2019**

------

Finally the day of testing has arrived and here we go. I was extremely happy with the C++ program being compiled with the `xtensa-esp-elf` compiler and was excited to see if it works on the board. I happen to have a board that I can't really find the model of - check the image below. Things get even more weird and frustrating when you try to power it off an external supply while still being connected to your laptop. I finally believe I broke the device. I am able to write to the hardware but the bootloader keeps looping the program and never starts. At this point, I am not even sure where to start debugging. 

## Power Connections

My previous experiences of running apps on ESP32 have been rather inconsistent, with the hardware suddenly functioning after 4-5 resets. Understandably, I believed that it was an issue with the power supply (as I was drawing the power from 3.3V line of serial converter) and can be fixed by powering it off an external source. I also observed a lot of brownout triggers which is why I concluded so. I only had DC-5V sources around but also had some resistors which I used to build a voltage divider network and confirmed it's voltage to be around 3.3V.  Despite the slight voltage differences in 3.3V line of CH340G and the external power supply, I shorted the grounds and connected external 3.3V to ESP32 while leaving the 3.3V of CH340G open. This resulted in garbage being printed on the serial monitor except for the **first 2 lines after boot** in general and "**waiting for downloading**" and other statements printed while uploading the program. 

This is definitely not a problem with the baudrate because if it were, nothing should have made sense, instead of partial garbage.

## Flash Reset

I finally thought of scrapping the whole thing and starting afresh. So the ultimate way of doing so is to reset the flash on ESP32. One can download `esptool.py` from `pip` and type the following command

```shell
esptool.py --chip esp32 --port /dev/ttySX erase_flash
```

Even after this, the board fails to work. The reasonless failures get quite frustrating.

## Is it because of CMake preview?

I also tried out CMake preview mentioned in the documentation, on a separate project folder. I will see what's wrong in the next entry.