# FERRET - SIMPLE AND CLASSY..

## What is Ferret?

According to Wikipedia, Ferret is a domesticated form of the European polecat, a mammal belonging to the same genus as the weasel, Mustela of the family Mustelidae. Let's get serious!

Ferret is currently a collection of reusable components for ESP32 based boards that lets you interface your hardware in the simplest possible way you can think. This is geared towards usage in developing robotics based projects but feel free to explore other directions.

## Why Ferret?

Have you ever found the ESP-IDF way of programming things overwhelming? Would Arduino ESP32 Core, while being a great alternative, make you shift to an entirely different workflow? Ferret is a ESP-IDF wrapper in C++ primarily designed to uplift the Object-oriented paradigm in ESP32 while still remaining native. 

## How is it different?

Ferret attempts to unify the existing knowledge-base of libraries for ESP32 and present it in a simplified-yet-powerful package that can be used in an object-oriented manner. There's no harm in calling wrapper around existing functions and libraries supported by ESP-IDF. It can be used in conjunction with existing ESP-IDF projects in C++.

While PlatformIO is great at being a generic level framework for microcontrollers, Ferret focuses solely at the ESP32 simplifying things related in-and-out of the ESP32. ESP32 being so versatile, can even make you forget that other microcontrollers exist. Dream of anything and you can do it. 

## Far in the future..

Looking ahead positively, Ferret shall grow as a framework, ecosystem, workflow and all the other ambitious things you can think of. 

#### Hardware Packages

The way this project has begun, it needs to continue building a strong ecosystem of hardware libraries that are extremely reliable, robust, and easy to use. 

#### Workflow

The idea is also to put together a GUI that let's access your project from A to Z, right from initializing a boilerplate application to flashing the chip. 

#### Seamless Interaction with Computer and other devices

Leverage the network layer to facilitate reliable communication with other devices. 

#### Robot Simulator

Interfacing with simulation engines like V-REP could add a lot of value in the process of developing robotic devices.

## Your help is needed..

If you've stopped here, you must have been into ESP32 development or you at least wish to.

Being a lone wolf, I can only take this so far. To make this reach greater heights, let the world know of it's existence and shine some stars. Also, devs and enthusiasts can either improve the existing code-base or add support to new components.